# **CLOUD SERVICE PROVIDERS**

Cloud Service providers are vendors which provide Information Technology (IT) as a service over the Internet. Cloud computing is a term which is used for storing and accessing data over the internet. It doesn’t store any data on the hard disk of your PC. Cloud companies helps you to access your data from a remote server.
Cloud computing companies services range from full application development platforms to servers, storage, and virtual desktops. Below is a handpicked cloud service providers list ;-

>## 1.  AWS : Amazon Web Services.

Amazon Web Services (AWS) is the market leader in IaaS (Infrastructure-as-a-Service) and PaaS (Platform-as-a-Service) for cloud ecosystems, which can be combined to create a scalable cloud application without worrying about delays related to infrastructure provisioning (compute, storage, and network) and management.
 The AWS cloud ensures infrastructure reliability, compliance with security standards, and the ability to instantly grow or shrink your infrastructure to meet your needs and maximize your budget, all without upfront investment in equipment.

Here’s a look at some of the services Amazon offers for making IT design and management simple with AWS ;

* ## *EC2: Server configuration and hosting*
    Deploy your army of servers with Amazon EC2.

 There are three popular instance types when creating EC2 instances:

**Compute optimized :** Used for instances that will require extremely high request rates, this configuration leverages industry leading processors.


**Memory optimized :** These instances are built with the most efficient per-GB memory cost.

**Storage optimized :**. Storage optimized EC2 instances access extremely fast SSD storage to serve data retrieval requests with lightning speed.

* ##  *Amazon S3: Data storage and movement*
To build a powerful cloud application you need scalable storage. AWS Simple Storage Services (S3) provides all the needed tools to store and move data around the globe using ‘buckets.’


AWS S3 simplifies all of your storage needs into containers called buckets, then lets you choose where and how to store them.
There are four ways to designate buckets in AWS and the S3 cost to store them varies greatly.

* ## *Elastic Load Balancing for scalable performance*
Amazon includes a powerful, scalable load balancing solution in AWS Elastic Load Balancer (ELB). ELB ensures that client requests are sent to the appropriate servers and avoiding any server hotspots (over-utilizing one server and under utilizing others).

* ## *AWS CloudFront*
Amazon Cloudfront is a global content delivery system that leverages Amazon’s vast global infrastructure to deliver contents with optimized speed and cost. CloudFront ensures that content is closer to the users and improves the user experience by delivering the content faster by serving the content from the AWS region closer to the end user.

* ## *Elastic Block Store (EBS): Low-latency instance access*
AWS Elastic Block Storage provides persistent Block-level storage volumes for your EC2 instances with low latency. It also allows your system to access high speed SSD storage and layer your security with Access Control Lists and encryption.

* ## *Amazon Route 53: The AWS DNS service*
Handle DNS routing with the high-speed, low cost Route 53 service from AWS. Translate machine hosts and named application to IP addresses and back within your VPC and connect resources like web servers, S3 buckets, and elastic load balancers. Route 53 is the network of DNS Servers hosted in various AWS regions all around the world. Using API, developers can easily automate the configuration changes to Route 53.

* ## *Cloudwatch: Monitor your AWS environment*
Cloudwatch is the native monitoring service for resources and applications running in AWS. Gather logs and monitor metrics for key resources like:

1. Amazon EC2 instance
1. Amazon DynamoDB tables
1. Amazon RDS DB instances
1. Custom metrics generated by your applications and services

With Cloudwatch you can achieve full visibility into all of your AWS components.

## **Optional AWS Support Services List**
* Lambda: Functions for optimized compute
* AWS Config: Infrastructure management
* Elastic Beanstalk: Build and scale great web apps
* CloudTrail: Monitor and audit activity

>  ## 2. HEROKU
Heroku is a platform as a service based on a managed container system, with integrated data services and a powerful ecosystem, for deploying and running modern app.
Below are the various services ofered;
* ## *Heroku Runtime*
Heroku runs your apps inside dynos — smart containers on a reliable, fully managed runtime environment.

* ## *Heroku Developer Experience (DX)*
The Heroku Developer Experience is an app-centric approach to software delivery so developers can focus on creating and continuously delivering applications, without being distracted by servers or infrastructure.

* ## *Data Services and Ecosystem*
Heroku Elements let developers extend their apps with Add-ons, customize their application stack with Buildpacks and jumpstart their projects with Buttons.

* ## *Heroku Operational Experience (OpEx)*
The Heroku Operational Experience is a key component of the platform. It helps developers through troubleshooting and remediation of common issues and customizing their ops experience to quickly identify and address negative trends in their application health. 

* ## *Security and Compliance*
Developers from around the world entrust sensitive data to Heroku, and nothing is more important to us than honoring our custodial commitments to protect this data.

>  ## 3. ORACLE CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE (OCI)

Oracle Cloud Infrastructure is a set of complementary cloud services that enable you to build and run a wide range of application and services in a highly available hosted environment. Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) offers high-performance compute capabilities (as physical hardware instances) and storage capacity in a flexible overlay virtual network that is securely accessible from your on-premises network.

These services include:

* ## *Compute* – Fully dedicated Bare Metal Instances or Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) Bare Metal Instances are offered. The compute serve as isolated single tenant hardware components that allows for complete control of the host. Another option is Virtual Machine Instances where you don’t need control of the full host. You can either choose from a preconfigured set of OS images or even bring your own Custom OS image, if preferred. Different configurations are available depending on your storage and latency requirements.

* ## *Storage* – Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) Object Storage provides unstructured data storage within buckets that provide elasticity for growth while allowing you to only pay for what you use. You can create unlimited buckets and are able to store unlimited objects within those buckets. Data Redundancy is provided automatically as multiple copies of an object is stored and spread across availability domains. Data integrity is monitored through the use of checksums with any loss of data redundancy being auto-detected and remediated. Server side encryption using AES256 is automatic as well providing protection for data at rest. OCI Block Volume is also available for storage sizes ranging from 50 Gigabytes to 2 Terabytes using NVMe-based Solid State Drives (SSD). OCI Block Volume also offers encrypted backups for increased security which are stored in object storage. A compute instance can have 32 volumes of OCI Block Volumes attached. OCI Archive Storage is available for infrequently accessed data that needs long-term retention. OCI Data Transfer Service is a data migration tool for uploading large amounts of data to OCI.

* ## *Networking* – OCI Virtual Cloud Network (VCN) is an integral piece of the OCI offering. When creating a Compute node, you will automatically be required to set up your networking for your instance. VCN is a single contiguous IPv4 CIDR block of choice that includes a private network, subnet, internet gateway, Dynamic Routing Gateway (DRG), route tables, security list, firewall rules, DHCP options and communications gateway.

* ## *Governance* – OCI Audit is enabled by default at no additional charge which records all API endpoint calls to deliver auditing service built in to your OCI environment.  Audit records are not instant but are available typically within 15 minutes from the occurrence of the event which are stored in JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) format. OCI Identity and Access Management (IAM) is included and enabled by default at no additional charge. Users of your OCI can be created and maintained, while privilege management to your infrastructure resources can be managed all in one policy driven configurable component. OCI Tagging allows you to apply information or operational tags to resources within your OCI environment.

* ## *Database* – Oracle Database Cloud Service Bare Metal provides an on-demand pay-as-you-go database service on dedicated hardware with local NVMe storage. High and Dense I/O configurations are single instance databases. Two Node RAC configurations are available as well. Oracle Exadata Cloud Service Bare Metal provides the high performance engineered system capability available in quarter, half and full rack configurations.

* ## *Load Balancing* – This works alongside the OCI VPN to offer public IP address load balancing within or across multiple availability Domains. Provides High Availability to prevent single points of failure and easily managed using either the API or web console to add and remove applications nodes. Additional features such as SSL Offloading, Traffic Shaper, Multi-Layered Security are offered to provide additional security features to load balancing workloads.

* ## *Edge Services* – Oracle is currently offering OCI DNS services but also has email delivery coming soon.

* ## *Containers* – OCI Containers allow for container-based microservices and server-less applications to be built, deployed, and operate using open source tools. For those familiar with Docker, this is Oracle’s mechanism for containerization.

* ## *Fast Connect*– This is OCI’s offering to allow traffic not traversing the Internet.

>## 4. AZURE

The Azure cloud services are trained and created to deploy and manage even complex apps, through virtual infrastructure. It supports various programming languages, devices, databases, operating systems, and extensive frameworks.
* ## *Azure Active Directory*
Azure Active Directory (AD) is one of the most popular cloud computing services from Microsoft Azure. Belonging to the Identity section, it is a universal identity platform to ensure the management and security of identities. It deserves the topmost mention in our list of best Azure services because of its robust security solutions.

* ## *Azure CDN*
Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN) deserves a mention here for being an extremely important Azure service that enables and accelerates growth in businesses. Its server is designed in a way that it can integrate a lot of storage space, web apps, and Azure cloud services. This is why Azure CDN is used to deliver content securely all across the world.

* ## *Azure Data Factory*
To create a data-driven workflow in cloud computing, Azure Data Factory ingests data from several sources to automate data transmission and movement. Azure Data Factory utilizes several Azure services for computing like – Azure Machine Learning, Azure HDInsight Hadoop, and Azure Data Lake Analytics. Azure Data Lake can be understood as a huge repository of data in its original form for Big data analytics.


* ## *Azure SQL*
Azure SQL database comes under the category of the platform as a service (PaaS) and is related to most of the database management functions, like – backups, monitoring, patching, and upgrading without any kind of user involvement. The efficiency of Azure SQL without requiring any human intervention is the reason why we have to mention it in our list of top Azure services.

* ## *Azure Function*
Developers use Azure Functions to connect to data sources or messaging solutions and react to events. The best part about Azure Function is its compute-on-demand capacity which means that you only pay for the services when you consume the resources. Azure Functions, a serverless compute service, enables enterprises to run event-triggered codes without having an infrastructure for its provision.

* ## *CosmosDB*
One of the most celebrated Azure services, CosmosDB is a globally distributed database service. It can access and manage data from scattered data centers while offering tools to scale up your computation resources and global distribution patterns through Microsoft Azure.

* ## *DevOps*
As you start using Microsoft Azure services, the software as a service (SaaS) platform of DevOps will be needed to develop and deploy software. It offers easy integration facilities with famous tools in the industry and can help orchestrate a DevOps toolchain. DevOps services prove the agility of the tools by tracking, planning, and discussing their work among other teams.

* ## *Azure Backup*
Human error is a crude reality and Azure Backup allows simple data protection tools from the Azure Web app services, to keep your data protected from ransomware or loss of any kind. The backup cost is almost inexpensive, and can be used for backing up SQL workloads, as well as data from virtual machines too.


* ## *Logic Apps*
As one of the top Azure services, Logic Apps have gained immense popularity due to their useful and efficient tools. They can offer effective solutions to integrate different applications. One must note the tightly-knit ecosystem of cloud-based SaaS connectors like Google Services, Twitter, and Office 365.


* ## *Virtual Machine*
A virtual machine is generally called an image, a file that can behave like an actual computer. Microsoft Azure offers the addition of virtual machines in its Compute category, thus creating Windows or Linux systems within a few seconds on a physical computer. The virtual machine stays separate from the rest of the computer, thus providing a perfect space to test beta applications, access virus-infected data, create system backups and run applications that were not natively intended to be run on the given operating system.

> ## 5. GOOGLE CLOUD PLATFORM (GCP)
Google Cloud Platform (GCP) is a collection of Google’s computing resources, made available via services to the general public as a public cloud offering.

Gcp offers varieties of servies with its core offerings listed below;

* networking
* compute 
* big data 
* storage and databases
* machine learning
* identity and security

> ## 6. ALIBABA
As the leading online marketplace in China and Asia, it was a natural step for Alibaba to turn its own considerable cloud computing capabilities into a public service. 

 services offered by Alibaba Cloud include ;
 * ## *An AC Cloud Primer*
Alibaba Cloud offers a full range of cloud products and services for databases, networking, security, analytics & big data, domains & website management, application services, media services, middleware, and more. In this section we provide an overview of the Alibaba Cloud services, including their key compute, storage, and management offerings.

* ## *Elastic Computing* 
Alibaba Cloud’s Elastic Compute Service (ECS), with state-of-the-art infrastructure (memory, CPUs) and built-in anti-DDoS protection, is offered across 17 international regions with multiple availability zones — all managed from a single global account.

* ## *Alibaba Cloud Storage and Infrastructure*
introduction to alibaba cloud computing servicesAlibaba Cloud’s Object Storage Service (OSS) guarantees 99.9% availability by storing three copies of objects. There is no upfront cost or long-term commitment, with payment determined by actual usage of storage space, network traffic, and number of requests processed